INSTALLING THE CUP-O MUD JAVA TELNET CLIENT

The Cup-O MUD Java telnet client allows you to create an integrated
interface using any Java-complient web browser that supports frames.
By presenting users with both a web display and interactive telnet
window, they can use the full power of the MOO without any need to
install or setup software they may not already have.  By integrating
the telnet client into the web browser, automatic updating of the web
display can be performed by the telnet client.

To install the Cup-O MUD system in your MOO:
 1. Complete the installation of the BioGate System

2. Create a subdirectory for the Java class files on your MOO server
where it can be accessed through a standard HTTP server.  For
instance, you might create a subdirectory:
    http://node.site.org/java/cupOmud/

3. Expand the CupOmud_exec.zip file included with this package into
the /java/cupOmud subdirectory.  If the file isn't there, you should
get a copy of the latest Cup-O MUD release from
"http://www.du.org/java/CupOmud/" which should have a link to the
compiled files as a ZIP archive.  In addition to the documentation,
there should be two "class" files; "CupOmud.class" in the main
directory, and "Applet.class" in an "mudclient" directory that should
be automatically created by the unZIP process.

4. Create a child of the $jclient_handler, named "Cup-O MUD Handler"
and set its "client_name" property to "CupOmud/CupOmud"  You may wish
to customize its ".default_preload_page" which is the text displayed
before the Java telnet client has finished loading and connecting to
the MOO.

5. Set the $http_handler.javaclient_codebase property to the
directory where all your java programs are located.  For the above
example, "/java/" is the correct setting.  The final location of the
class file for the Cup-O MUD main class file is constructed as:
$network.site + $http_handler.javaclient_codebase +
<jclient_handler>.client_name

6. Add the Cup-O MUD handler object to the list of handlers with
permission to use the HTTP system, by adding it to the list in the
$http>handler.java_clients property.

7. Insert the relevent form data into your MOO's gateway page.  You
can simply copy the form from the example file "gateway.txt" in the
package.  The only item you MUST change is the value for "client"
which should be the numeric part of the Cup-O MUD handler's object
number.  For instance, if it was object #404, then you should use
"404" as the value for "client" in the gateway page form.
